# Handwritten-Character-Recognition-Using-Image-Processing
Handwritten characters are crucial in daily life, but recognizing them requires dealing with diverse styles and complex digitization processes. Deep learning approaches are used for offline recognition.

At present, handwritten characters are increasingly used in daily life. Handwriting digits and character recognitions have become increasingly important in today's digitized world due to their practical applications in various day-to-day activities. The main challenge in handwritten character recognition is to deal with the enormous variety of handwriting styles by different writers. Systems that are used to recognize Handwriting letters, characters, and digits help people to solve more complex tasks that otherwise would be time-consuming and costly.

Digitization of a handwritten document involves various. Certain features will need to be detected, such as digitization, preprocessing, segmentation, feature extraction, and representation of character features can be measured. However, this work involves only the isolated offline handwritten English characters recognition using a deep learning approach.

The human visual system is basically involved at whatever point people are perusing Handwriting characters, letters, words, or digits. It appears to be easy at whatever point one is understanding penmanship, yet it isn't generally so natural as individuals accept it. Humans can sort out what they see dependent on what their minds have been instructed, in spite of the fact that everything is done unwittingly. A human may not see the value in the fact that it is so hard to tackle penmanship. The test of visual example acknowledgment is simply obvious to foster a PC system to understand penmanship. The counterfeit neural networks approach is considered as the most ideal way of creating systems for perceiving penmanship. Neural networks help to reenact how the human mind functions when perusing penmanship in a more worked-on structure. It permits machines to coordinate and even surpass human capacities at understanding penmanship. People have distinctive penmanship styles, some of which are hard to peruse. Moreover, perusing penmanship might be tedious and dreary, particularly when people are needed to peruse a few Handwriting records by various people. A neural network is the most suitable for the proposed system because of its capacity to get importance from complex information and distinguish patterns from information that are difficult to recognize by either other human methods or humans. The principle point of this paper is to foster a model that will be utilized to peruse Handwriting digits, characters, and words from the picture utilizing the idea of a Convolution Neural Network. The following segments will give an outline of the connected work, hypothetical foundation, architecture, methodology, test results, and conclusion
